Now we will see how to find
different tools online that will allow us
to use different capabilities for
the robots and in this case we'll see
how to use ROS Vosk,
which is a tool to perform speech recognition indoors.
And we'll see also how to install
other tools to play audio in our similarity container,
so let's go to it.
I have already open,
this is the GitHub page of
the ROS Vosk tool and it's
public code and it's often the case
that this code is usually public and it's easy to
install and usually you will find these
either in the ROS Noetic or Google or so on.
If you start to look into, for instance,
speech recognition in rows,
you will find some tools that will help
you to do that and so on.
And usually we'll see
the instructions on how to install things here,
but I already installed
all the dependencies and everything in this week,
single containers, you will not need to do that,
but just clone the GitHub repository.
And for those who may not know,
the GitHub is a version control system that allows
to keep different versions
of the work and different comments
and people use it to publish their work as
open sourcefware and we'll see
now how to download
this code and install it in our computer,
so we will go to this code tab, clone, and copy this,
which will be the clone link and
then we'll go to our terminal and let me
open singularity and source
our workspace because I don't have the alias set up.
Now I will go there
the source folder where I have
some packages we will be developing
today and some more packages and now I will get
clone paste the link on White ROS Vosk.
So this will be the name of the package,
ROS packages usually are
written with underscores this hasn't there,
it's easier to naming like
this now this will download all the code,
our computer and as this is happening,
we will be using, downloading an code which is this one,
the HMI Robin, which is developed by
some group at JKU University,
which is the Johannes Caber University
by the group of Robotics,
so we'll be using this also as a way to perform speech.
So again, we'll copy this link and now
get clones always with an underscore
that's fine and now what this has done is to create
this ROS Vosk and
the HMI packages in
our workspace and what we need to do is to compile them.
Now we'll go back to the source
of the workspace and run make
it creates all the packages
and messages that it needs in order to work,
so now let's wait until all the packages compiled.
And now we have
compiled all the packages in the workspace,
which means that now we can run all these tools,
now let's start with see how we can recognise speech.
So we will start by launching the ROS Vosk launch,
which is inside the package ROS Vosk
and now this says that this is way to listen.
And as you can see,
this is already recognising what I am
saying and obviously,
my English is not perfect,
but this is quite recognising what I'm saying,
this printing what it's being recognised on the screen,
but let's see how we can get this from the node,
so let's see what information is the no providing.
So let's start by
executing another singularity container here,
sourcing the [inaudible] that's fun and now let's see,
by using node here,
what information is this node providing,
so let's I'm tapping
and this is the different nodes that are there,
so we want to see what's inside this Vosk engine.
So ROS node info will tell us
all the information at the node basically,
which topics are being published,
which topics is this subscribing to,
and which services does the not
provide, among other information.
So these are the services that it provides,
those are just standard internal services,
so this is not something that we usually will call.
These are the subscription this is being subscribed
to this topic called TTS slice status,
so this is some information that this node is getting,
and the information that this node is publishing,
so this is what we're interested in,
and also standard topic in rows,
we'll mainly be interested in all these topics.
There is a topic which is called Final
result that will be publishing a string,
another topic which is called partial result that will be
publishing a different string and then the Vosk result,
which will be publishing this information,
so let's subscribe to all these topics
and see what's being published in them.
So we'll start by doing
a rostopic echo to see what is inside the topic,
so let's see what's inside
this final result and now this will keep
telling us all the information that's being said by
me and when I stop speaking,
this will be the end of
the recognition and then this will be
sent on the topic as the final recognition.
Now let's see what happens when
checking this partial result,
so let's now topic echo
this partial result and here it keeps publishing
things as long as it goes on
recognising them and finally,
let's see what's inside this Vosk preserve route.
This is the information that it will be saying,
so it will keep putting some information telling you
if it's recognised when I stop speaking,
it says it's recognised and then it publishes
the final speech and
this also provides some other information.
So basically, as we can see,
the topic will be interested
is in this final recognition,
which is telling us the final part of our speech.
Now let's try something different and
let's see if we can make our computer speak,
so let's now check which topics are
available and we see that there's
this TTS phrase and TTS status
which I guess will be published by the TTS engine node.
So this TTS engine node
publishes some status and subscribe to one phrase,
so TTS stands for text to speech,
so this means that if we publish this phrase,
we will get some information and this
says that it's from an unknown type,
which is strange, let's see what happens here.
If we check topic type,
it will tell us that it has a type message of string,
so now let's see what happens when we publish
some information to this topic,
so we will be publishing to this, if I type,
now we will complete the message type and
some data and let's say that this is a test.
This one of the way
that we've seen using speech and text to speech
now let's see the other node we've seen which is
called Speech database and
this one probably will have the same error,
but we will try and this node what does connect
to Google Cloud and use
the Google Translate text to speech to get the speech,
which produces a bit less robotic speech output.
And what it also does is that it
stores the text that it has already used and
retrieved from the Internet in order
to not make them again,
so instead of getting them from the Cloud again,
it goes in the local database.
So let's see if we can run this from here,
now let's check which topics are there
and We can see that there is
some play topic, some speech topic.
Let's go to rosnode Info
and see which nodes are there now and
there is basically one node
which is called HMI Speech Database,
that subscribe to one speech topic, unknown type again.
And let's see what's inside
this topic speech and this topic has a string message,
so let's try to publish to this speech topic and again,
I tap and it will auto-complete,
now I will say again,
this is another test.
Let's see if we can hear this.
>> This is another test
[NOISE] my
robot can speak.
>> So we have seen now two ways of using
speech to understand speech
and also to make the robot speak,
now let's see how we can make
our robot go to places and tell us what it is doing.
